= INTRODUCTION

This is a PBCore-compliant media asset database developed in Ruby on 
Rails.

To report bugs, email the author at mike@vermicel.li

To browse the source, go to
http://git.mlcastle.net/?p=pbcore.git;a=summary

This software was developed by Roasted Vermicelli, LLC for the
WNET Digital Archive. Copyright © 2008-2009 Educational Broadcasting 
Corporation. Copyright © 2009-2011 Roasted Vermicelli LLC.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the 
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your 
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but 
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of 
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU 
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along 
with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

A copy of the GNU General Public License can also be found in the 
'GPL-3' file in the root directory of the project.

Code in the vendor and gems directories of this project was created by 
other authors under potentially different Free Software licenses; look 
in those directories for further information.

This work employs PBCore. The PBCore (Public Broadcasting Metadata 
Dictionary) was created by the public broadcasting community in the 
United States of America for use by public broadcasters and others. 
Initial development funding for PBCore was provided by the Corporation 
for Public Broadcasting. The PBCore is built on the foundation of the 
Dublin Core (ISO 15836), an international standard for resource 
discovery (http://dublincore.org), and has been reviewed by the Dublin 
Core Metadata Initiative Usage Board. Copyright: 2005, Corporation for 
Public Broadcasting.

== LOCAL DEVELOPMENT SET-UP

Refer to the server set-up, but don't actually set up a server.

Some points:

* Copy a config from config/auth_rules to config/authorization_rules.rb (site-specific)

* You need to create config/application.json (see .example file)

* There's now scripts/install_required_gems.rb which will install all the dependencies needed.

* Sunspot gem versions > 1.1 do not seem to work with Rails 2.1
	
* Sunspot needs to be indexed and running:

 	$ rake sunspot:solr:start
	$ rake sunspot:solr:reindex

== SERVER SET-UP

See doc/INSTALL.rdoc

== Notes

- /config/authorization_rules.rb is symlinked to a ruleset in /config/auth_rules/
- /config/auth_rules/lockdown.rb is for DHC
- zed is z.mlcastle.net
- wnet is out-of-date and unsupported
- bavc is gone

