= PBCore Repository Installation

Here is how to install the PBCore Record Repository on a CentOS,
Debian, or Ubuntu server. Note: this is technical documentation
intended for systems administrators already familiar with Linux and
their distribution of choice. As with any recipe, read the whole thing
before proceeding.

WARNING: The CentOS instructions here are out-of-date. In the case of
errors, read the Debian/Ubuntu instructions and adjust the CentOS
instructions appropriately.

== Install prerequisite software
Our front-end webserver will be nginx
(http://wiki.nginx.org/Main). So, if the machine in question is
already running Apache httpd, get rid of it:

On CentOS:
 service httpd stop
 yum remove httpd

or on Debian or Ubuntu:
 aptitude remove apache2

(You could also use apache httpd instead, but doing so is a bit tricky
and prone to performance woes.) Now, install the packages we'll need:

On CentOS:
 rpm -i http://download.fedora.redhat.com/pub/epel/5/x86_64/epel-release-5-3.noarch.rpm
 yum install nginx git libxml2-devel.x86_64 mysql.x86_64 mysql-server mysql-devel.x86_64 gcc gcc-c++

On Debian or Ubuntu:
 aptitude install nginx git-core libxml2-dev mysql-server libmysqlclient-dev libxslt1-dev build-essential ruby-full

Next, on CentOS, you have to install ruby (http://www.ruby-lang.org/)
<b>1.8.6</b> or later. Version 1.8.5, as provided with CentOS 5, is *not*
sufficient, and the 1.9 series is incompatible with current versions
of Rails. So, you ideally want Ruby 1.8.7; version 1.8.6 will do fine
as well. If you manage to find some alternate source for suitable RPM
packages, install <tt>ruby ruby-devel ruby-irb ruby-libs ruby-rdoc</tt> and,
optionally, <tt>ruby-docs</tt>

Current versions of Debian and Ubuntu ship with suitable versions of
Ruby and will be taken care of by the +aptitude+ line above.

Only after installing this suitable version of Ruby, install rubygems
(http://www.rubygems.org/) either from its website or by doing <tt>yum
install rubygems</tt> (on CentOS) or <tt>aptitude install
rubygems</tt> (on Debian).

You'll need at least version 1.3 of rubygems, so if you're using
Debian lenny or earlier, you'll need to get this from
backports. Current versions of Ubuntu ship with a suitable version, so
there is no need for any such shenanigans.

Make sure also that you have Java available, for the Solr search
engine. On Debian/Ubuntu, you can accomplish this by doing
<tt>aptitude install openjdk-6-jre-headless</tt>.

And, finally, install some needed ruby packages by doing
 gem install -v 2.1.2 rails --no-ri --no-rdoc
 gem install -v 0.9.6 rsolr --no-ri --no-rdoc
 gem install chronic libxml-ruby rake rack thin fast_xs whenever sunspot sunspot_rails aws-s3 haml libxslt-ruby grit delayed_job --no-ri --no-rdoc
 gem install mysql --no-ri --no-rdoc -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/bin/mysql_config

If you're using the Debian-provided rubygems package, then the
binaries for the install gems will not automatically be in your
+PATH+. The easiest way to fix this is to do
 ( cd /usr/bin && ln -s /var/lib/gems/1.8/bin/* . )

== Configuring the prerequisites
=== Configure MySQL
If you're concerned about security, edit <tt>/etc/my.cnf</tt>, adding the line
 bind-address = 127.0.0.1

to the <tt>[mysqld]</tt> section. (On Debian and Ubuntu, the file is
called <tt>/etc/mysql/my.cnf</tt> and this configuration is already
the default.) Then, on CentOS, start +mysqld+ and make sure
it stays started:
 /etc/init.d/mysqld start
 chkconfig mysqld on

On Debian and Ubuntu, +mysqld+ will be automatically started when you
install the package.

Now would be a good time to set a mysql password for the root user if
you've not done so already. Next, create the database we'll be using,
and a user for the web application to use:
 mysqladmin create pbcore
 echo "GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON pbcore.* TO pbcore@localhost IDENTIFIED BY 'my_secure_password'" | mysql

If you are migrating a database from an existing install, now's the
time to copy the data over. If this is to be a fresh install, we'll
set up the schema later.

=== Configure nginx
A sample nginx configuration file is provided as
<tt>nginx.conf.sample</tt>. Examine it, modify it (or don't), and
stick it in <tt>/etc/ngnix.conf</tt> (on CentOS) or
<tt>/etc/nginx/nginx.conf</tt> (on Debian).

On Debian, you will either have to modify the +user+ line to match the
Debian-provided <tt>www-data</tt> or create an +nginx+ user to match
the configuration file.

Then, on CentOS, start nginx and make sure it stays started:
 /etc/init.d/nginx start
 chkconfig nginx on

On Debain, nginx will have been automatically started when you
installed it, so just make sure it reads your new configuration file
by doing
 /etc/init.d/nginx reload

=== Create a user

We don't want our software to run as either root or nginx, so create a
user for it to run as:
 useradd www

Then (this is important) copy *your* SSH public key into
<tt>/home/www/.ssh/authorized_keys</tt>. Make sure that this file has
permissions mode 0600 and that both the file and its containing
directory are owned by the +www+ user.

== Install the repository software

On the server, make a directory <tt>/var/www/pbcore</tt> where the
software will live and set its owner to the +www+ user you created
above. We use capistrano (http://www.capify.org/) for deployment, so
now you will have to do some things on your local machine. The
following instructions assume your local machine is POSIX (GNU/Linux
or Mac OS X). It may somehow be possible to do all this on Windows,
perhaps with cygwin (http://www.cygwin.com/) , but this is
untested. If you don't already have them, install ruby, rubygems, and
git (http://git-scm.com/) . Get capistrano by doing <tt>sudo gem install
capistrano capistrano-ext</tt>

Now, grab a copy of the software (again, on your local machine):
 git clone git://git.mlcastle.net/pbcore.git pbcore; cd pbcore

Inside the pbcore directory, you'll see a directory config/deploy with
a file in it called site.rb.example
(http://git.mlcastle.net/?p=pbcore.git;a=blob;f=config/deploy/site.rb.example;hb=HEAD).
Copy this to some file reminding you of your server (I used
<tt>wnet.rb</tt>) and then edit the copy: put the name of your server
in all three role lines and configure the <tt>:app_db_pass</tt> to
match the MySQL password you assigned above. If you're a capistrano
wizard, you can also of course put any other settings changes you like
in here. Now, ask your local machine to create the proper directory
structure on the server by doing the following command from the pbcore
diretory:
 cap my_site deploy:setup

In that command and all +cap+ commands which follow, replace
<tt>my_site</tt> with the name of the site configuration file you set
up, without the <tt>.rb</tt> extension. So, I would do <tt>cap wnet
deploy:setup</tt>.

If you're migrating an existing installation of the repository, copy
<tt>/var/www/pbcore/shared /configs/site_key.txt</tt> (including the
permissions thereupon) from the old server to the new one; otherwise,
you will not be able to log in to the repository. If this is a new
install, a new <tt>site_key.txt</tt> will be automatically created and
you don't have to worry about it.

Now it's time to ask your local machine to install the software to the
server. This will also set up or upgrade the database schema if
necessary:
 cap my_site deploy:migrations

Now, ask the search server to index the data (even if there is no data
yet, it will create an empty index). Then, start everything up:
 cap my_site deploy:start

Things can be a bit hairy on the first deployment, so you might have
to manually start one or more services:
 cap my_site thin:start

(If you'd like to have a list of all defined cap tasks, just do
<tt>cap -T</tt>).

You should now be able to browse and use the repository!

=== Recurrent and exceptional tasks
We want to make sure things come back up properly should the server
ever be rebooted. CentOS and Debian provides init scripts for nginx
and MySQL, but we need one for thin. Examine the provided
thin-init-scripts.tar.gz, install it, and then, on CentOS, do
 chkconfig thin on
On Debian, do
 update-rc.d thin defaults

(Previous versions of this document described setting up
cronjobs. This is now automatically handled by hooks in capistrano.)

== Upgrading

If changes are pushed to the master PBCore repository and you want
them for your installation, just go to the directory on your local
machine into which you checked out the repository and do
 git pull cap my_site deploy

If there were any changes to the database schema (known as migrations
in Rails), replace the second line with
 cap my_site deploy:migrations

If you're unsure, it's safe to do this on every deploy.

== This Documentation is Incomplete

Note that these instructions don't include automatic restarting of the
search daemon or backgroundrb. You can look in the god-config
directory for examples of how we use god (http://god.rubyforge.org)
for these sorts of things.

Also left undescribed here are instructions for using Unicorn instead
of thin. Especially in combination with Ruby Enterprise Edition,
Unicorn has a lower memory footprint than Thin.